- [Instructor] Adding visuals to your reports
will make your presentations
more engaging and more memorable.
In this lesson, I'll walk you through a few ways
that Power BI lets you build reports.
In this example,
I'll build multiple charts using sample data
of a company sales for 2021.
You can install Power BI on your PC
by going to the Microsoft store and searching for Power BI.
I have already imported the data
from sales order and customer files,
which you can find in the exercise files.
On the visualization panel,
there are several options to make a chart.
I want to build one showing how many items
were sold each month.
I'm going select the stacked column chart
because it will let me place time on the bottom axis
and count the orders on the vertical axis.
A blank visual is added to my workspace,
I'll select order date from the sales order
header table in the field's list.
Order date gets added in the axis box and visualizations.
Power BI determined that the field was a date
and produces a date hierarchy
of year, quarter, month, and day.
I'll select the X next to year
and quarter to remove them from my visualization
since I only need month and day.
Next, drag order quantity
from sales order details into values.
The data values showed on the chart
will be the sum of items sold that month.
The visual is populated, but very small.
I'll select the bottom right corner
of the visual and drag it to fill the screen.
Now I can see that the most items were sold in February.
I might prefer to see this with the date
on the vertical axis, so I can select stacked bar chart.
The last change I want to make to this chart is
to give it an easily understood name,
right now it's order quantity by month.
In the visualizations panel I'll select format,
expand title and change the title text to be monthly orders.
These visualizations will help you
to analyze the data at a glance.
Now that I've built my first Power BI visualization,
I want to create one more before finishing this report.
I'll shrink the monthly orders visual,
giving me room to work.
Next, let's create a donut chart to gain insight
into the companies that purchase the most.
The donut chart format will quickly show me
the top purchasers.
In the home ribbon, select new visual.
In the visualization pane, I'll select donut chart.
First, I'll pull in the total sales using line total,
select the check box next to line total
in sales order details.
Looking at this, we see that the line total is being shown
as a decimal number instead of a monetary sum.
I'll select line total, and we'll change the formatting
of this by selecting display the values in this column
as currency, we see that the total
for this chart is now $708,000 of sales.
Now, select the checkbox for company name
in the customer table and the donut chart
will populate with the customer names by total sales.
Move and resize the two visuals
so they show up well on the page.
Finally, since this report will be for our California
sales team, I'm going to apply a filter to the page.
Expand the filters panel and drag state province
from customer into the filters on this page box.
This will allow me to apply a filter
of customer state equals California
to all my visuals on the page.
I'll select California and see the visuals change,
February continues to be the month
when most items are ordered by California customers.
Eastside Department Store is the biggest purchaser
in California.
I now have a report ready to share
with our California team.
Bar charts and donut charts are just the beginning
of what you can accomplish with this software.
Power BI has many more options
to help you present your data.
Figure out what data points you can visually represent
to help your team grow and collaborate.
By finding opportunities to make visualizations,
you can clearly communicate your impact
and effectiveness to your team, clients, and stakeholders.